* We have a list: Can be implemented in two ways: Linked Lists (make use of poitners) or as arrays

* However, if we can separate the implementation and interface some way, it would be very helpful 

* In C++, we can make use of iterators, always point to containers (which include classes and structures).

* We have several different paradigms: functional, procedural, object oriented and object based:

* Interfaces contain the "What to do" while implementation is about the "How to do"

1. Procedural: Makes use of subroutines.
* C is procedural

2. Object based:
- For C++:
* class and struct are very similar and have small differences: Structs are usually public while classes are private. 
* Both of them can contain methods
* The interface of a function in C++ CAN BE CHANGED using variadic.

3. Object Orietned:
- Abstraction
- Encapsulation
- Composition
- Inheritance
- Polymorphism
* C++ provides multiple inheritance, while Java provides single inheritance.

4. Generic Programming

5. Functional Programming:
- For pure functions:
	* They always produce same output for same arguments.
	* No side effects.
- Recursion: There is no concept of loops in functional langauges.
- Functions are first class citizens in functional programming.
	* Can be passed into functions.
	* Can be returned from functions.
	* Can be stored in variables.
- Variables are immutable: We can create new variables but not modify existing variables.


### Currying
* Curried objects are closely related functions.
* Currying means partial applicatoin of a function.

for example:
if we notice that a parameter is not relevant:
eg: drawAt(0, 1, 0); drawAt(1, 0, 0); drawAt(-1, 0, 0); drawAt(0, -1, 0);
Now, we can notice that the last parameter is not relevant, so we can create another function
auto drawInPlaneAt = [](float x, float y){drawAt(x, y, 0);}


6. Logic Programming



## About C++
* Procedural, generic, and has support for functional features as of C++11 (lambda expressions).
* With the use of lambda (or anonymous) functions, we can return pointers and send them as parameters.
* With the use of functors, we can directly call objects as if they were functions

- Abstraction: Giving relevant details depending on the person looking at the data.
- Encapsulation: About interfaces and implementation; keeps relevant data together to mimic an entity.
* Tells us about what the world needs to know through interfaces (exposed to the world, public, and cannot change), and what the world does not need to know (the implementation, which can change).


## Composition
- When you embed one class within another class.
* vs Inheritance: With composition, there is no level of indirection (use of pointers). With Inheritance, we have an extra level of inheritance.
* When you have composition, if you have an embedded class, then the variable gets declared (setting the type), definition (memory allocation), and then initialized (setting value).


https://tinyurl.com/bdh9j2w6

## Attributes of a variable
* Name (identifier)
* Type
* Size
* Scope
* Visibility

- There are two types of anonymous variables (ones without names)
* The first is when you manually allocate memory using 'new'.
* Temporary vars during expression evaluation.
	Eg: z = x + y + a
	The compiler allocates a temporary variable to first add any 2 of x, y, and z and then completes the sum and assigns
	The life of temporary lasts only upto the execution of evaluation of the function
	So, these variables are not accessible

* In C++, we can dynamically create data by using `new`.
```
int *p = new int;
```

* new vs malloc for a class:
new, malloc, calloc, realloc, all allocate on the heap.
But when we instantiate a class using new as opposed to instantiating a class using malloc, a constructor gets called. A malloc bypasses the constructor operation.

- 3 places where data can get stored in the memory
1. Data segment: Global variables and static variables
2. Stack: Normal variables
3. Heap: Dynamically allocated variable

- In C++,
* Global variables are initialized to 0
* Stack variables (like `int i`) have garbage
* Static variables (`static int`) initialized to 0
* `int *p = new int` have garbage

- Global variables are allocated the following way:
* The process asks the OS "Please give me a few pages."
* The OS will then blankly give pages away.
* Effective, optimal utilization of the memory is through heap.

* So, during compilation, when the compiler reads 'int', it'll see a lookup table and tell the program the amount of memory required to be allocated.

- Scope vs Visibility
* Eg of a variable which has a lifetime but not in scope

* Extern variables are stored in data segment
* Mutable has no impact on the part where the variable is allocated.
* Mutable can circumvent const qualifiers but not when used on pointers in classes.


* std::string s1("test"); //Calls constructor
std::string s2 = "test"; //	


- HW Attempt to assign cout to a variable




# Functions

* Function Declarations: The type
* Function Definition: Memory Allocation
* Instantiation: Calling of the function

## Matching of Parameters
1. Exact Match
2. Trivial Conversions
3. Promotions: No loss of precision
4. Standard Conversions
5. Generic Functions
6. User Defined Conversions
7. Type-unsafe

- There are 6 types of trivial conversions. There is no hierarchy among these 6.
* Eg: Converting an integer array into an integer pointer.

* LValue represents the container.
* LValue tells you "This is the name of the container"
* LValue: Name pointing to an address.

* When you pass as an lvalue with two &&, then it treats the lvalue as an rvalue.




* Promotions have NO ISSUES, but std conversions CAN have ambiguity.

- There are 3 types of casts which are unsafe to work with.
* Pointers are unsafe to work with.
* Variadic functions (variable number of arguments): You can have ANY TYPE being passed to it.



## Overloading

* When you have a function overloaded, post-compilation, we have the program behave similarly to as if two different functions.
* In the symbolic table, we can see the mangled names of the functions. Mangling is compiler dependent.


* Reference to a pointer is meaningless UNDER SOME CIRCUMSTANCES.


## Template

* We don't want to overload a function 5 times or something for every combination of parameters.
* We use templates, as a result.

- We do not use macros because of code bloat
- We DO NOT USE VOID POINTERS because of 3 reasons:
1. Type safety (no type-checking)
2. Cannot pass the data type that we want to cast to
3. Even if you still want to, you'll have to pass the size as another argument.


- Implicit and Explicit instantiation



## Templates

* A template can be applied to both functions and classes.
* Class vs struct: It's just syntactic sugar.
* If you have the same algo for multiple different types, then parameter-ize the type.





-------------


## Lazy Instasntiation

We have a struct, which means that it is a public class
In main, we instantiate out a class which specifically takes a string.
As it turns out, if we don't make a call to the function, the compiler will just replace the function with its declaration.
Making a function call will allow it to keep its definition.


## Guess what 1 and 2

The first call is matched to the template
The second call is matched to the double

## What's going on here?

The first parameter will make it instantiate T to a float, but the second parameter will then not match.


## Explicit instantiation

It takes a float, casts it into int, then compares, and then returns the result after being casted into bool

## Instantiation

Inititally, the function does not get instantiated.
The second slide's function does get instanttiated.

## What happens here



...

b and c have the same integer because of the `static`

Whenever you 'use' a template, you instantiate it.




## Recap

* References to pointers don't make sense as references point to fixed OBJECTS.

* Templates are used for classes and functions: When implementation is supposed to be same.

* For functions, don't specialize; overload them instead.

### Default arguments 

* Once I put a default value for T1 in the template, then I must put a default value for T2 and T3

Eg: 

```cpp
#include <iostream>
using naemspace std;

class foo {
	
};
```

* If we have multiple argument, each of them can have defaults. Good practice: Have default value parameters at the end.


# Specialization

* Normally, we have a default template. (The algorithm for all types that we pass to the template is the same). Suppose we wish to change the behavior, then we specialize the template for each subclass, and the key to it is template<>
* Classes can have both full and partial specializations. Functions can have full specialization only, no partial specializations. 
* DimovAbhrahams

```cpp
// Implmement a genreic class called Srini which takes 2 parameters as its input
* Size
* Storage class
* Test this for storage classes array, vector, queue and stack
* Here is the stub code for testing it
```


