## Template, static users

Example 1: Code generated

When commented, the pointner does not get instantiated.
When uncommented, the pointer does get instantiated.

## Instantiation 

* Lazy instantiation and static instantiation.
* Static variables defined in a class are not instantiated in the sense that memory is not given to them, nor are they given a default value even if we have a concrete implmementation.
* So, singleton patterns are often implemented using static storage classes.
* Static function belong to the class, not to the objects.


```cpp
class LazySingleton {
public:
	static T& instance() {
		static T obj;
		return obj;
	}
};

int main()
{
	auto& obj = LazySingleton<int>::instance();
}
```

* If we make the constructor private, we end up with an error.


### Unit 2 Part 2

* KSS sir has no respect for IIITs

## Inheritance

* If you have a parent class, and say that you're the child of the parent class, then you inherit the attributes as well as the public-private parts of the parent class.

* Assume the following:

We have a base class, then we have a derived class.
If we have to get a function defined in the parent class while we're working with templates, then we'll need to have full scope resolution.

* Can a templatized child class inherit from a non templatized parent?
Ans: Yes




```cpp
#include <iostream>
class Base{
	private:
		void func() {
			std::cout << "func\n";
		}
};

class Derived: public Base {
	public:
		void callBase() {
			func();
		}
};

```

* Using `const` at the end of a function in a class like this:

```
class Base {
	void func1() const {
		std::cout << "func1()\n";
	}
};
```

If it is specified, then none of the members of the class can be modified inside the function.

* Using `const` at the end of a function outside a class will not be allowed.


### Overriding in child classes:

```cpp
template <class T>
class Base 
{
public:
void set(const T& val) { data = val; }
private:
	T data;
};

template <class T>
class Derived : public Base<T>
{
public:
void set (const T& val);
};

template <class T>
void Derived<T>::set(const T& v)
{
Base<T>::set*V(l
std::cout << "Additional logic";
}

```


### Types of constructor

1. Default: class()

2. Parametrized: class(par1, par2, ...);

3. Copy: class(classobj);

4. Move: 


Eg:
```cpp
c c1;

//Types of constructors
c2 = c1;	//Usually shallow copy
c2(c3);		//Deep copy
```

* Deep copy occurs in a new memory location
* Shallow copy occurs in the same memory location


```cpp

/* Class C contains two public members: int x and int *y /*

int main()
{
	C c1(10);
	C c2(c1);
	C c3 = c1;

	std::cout << "c2.x = " << c2.x << std::endl;
	std::cout << "c3.x = " << c3.x << std::endl;

	return 0;
}
```

* Doing int x = y -> Deep copy


## Templates and Friends

* A friend variable has no impact on whether it is declared in public or private.

* Transitivity:
If class A has a friend class B defined, and class B has a friend class C defined, then transitivity **DOES NOT** hold.

* Overriding a function in a child class (when base class is a friend of A) will not let the program compile.

* The process of declaration, definition, and instantiation is called "deduction".

* Always remember, if you want to, use a friend, who is a template, you must declare it, and define it, ahead of the other class. 

* But if you declare it ahead of the other class, the other class might be accessing some other class in the middle, which may cause errors.

* So, one solution is to declare all the prototypes.

* A much better practice is to declare some guy, define whatever you whave to define later. But the order could be "Go from child to parent".

* As it turns out, private variables in a class are accessible to all the objects of the class.


## Nested Classes

* Prevents namespace pollution

* Encapsulation

* Association


* For a dependent function, the definition must be done along with declaration.

* If a class is not templat-ized, we can define it anywhere.

* For dependent types, name-binding happens at instantiation: Second pass.

* For non-dependent types, name-binding happens at definition: First pass.


